this is the console
2624 a hall effect keyboard that was
made all the way back in 1989 in the
cssr the czechoslovak Soviet Socialist
Republic using components from Tesla and
it was deployed in places like the
Chernobyl nuclear power plant this thing
doesn't glow does it not if we keep the
lights on that's reassuring I've already
got a lot of questions but the lab made
that old Soviet Mouse work so so I'm
guessing the answer to can I game on it
is yes yeah you can and it's one of the
best keyboards we've ever tested but
also one of the worst we'll unpack that
in a bit first I need a word for what
this thing feels
like wumpy here listen for
yourself and listen to the segue to our
sponsor next too say bonjour to the
hello cam Pro and give your setup an
upgrade with its 1080p res resolution 60
FPS frame rate and windows hello facial
recognition you can learn more at the
link in the video description our
specimen here is a product of zuco Bruno
or Bruno Armory first founded in 1918
they made everything from rifles to cars
to farming equipment and they have a
soccer team named after them now anyway
none of that matters for the moment what
matters is getting it working and I
suspect our first problem is going to be
this connector they used a game Port
well sort of it's the same da15
connector but in this case it's used for
simple asynchronous serial
Communications simple-ish this helpful
post on deskthority keyboard Forum gave
us some good pointers and as it turns
out we only need to hook up six of the
pins ground serial input and output both
5 and negative2 volt power and finally a
clock pulse does asynchronous cial
normally need a clock pulse no ah so
there's your
ish a little more on that later for now
according to Forum post we need to
provide a square wave at 16 times the
frequency or B rate okay oh but there's
a recommended value wow I can't believe
how easy this is turning out to
be we just wire our connector up to a
microcontroller like we did last time in
this case a Raspberry Pi Pico that we've
programmed to send the clock signal
using timer upts and then read the
serial data and spit it out over USB
okay not super familiar with their
alphabet but hey I know Numbers One MH
two o x uh okay
V uh it's pretty clear something's wrong
because if this is how it worked I'm
surprised Chernobyl lasted as long as it
did time to do some digging we can see
that different Keys produce the same
output but to really understand what's
at play here we're going to need to see
the individual bits and hence you
weren't kidding this is awesome Rhoden
Schwarz has an asky mode that means that
not only can we see the raw output but
it actually shows us up at the top
exactly which asy character it's
supposed to correspond to of course as
cool as this is that doesn't really fix
anything so in order to do that we had
to change the mode what are we looking
at now so once we showed it all in
binary we could very easily and Visually
see that the first half of our data was
varying as he presses different keys but
the second half was not varying at all
we had to figure out why this was
happening interesting so that's how we
compress two different keys and get
exactly the same or a similar enough
output that we get the same
value that my friends is why electronics
need to come with schematics it's like a
breath of fresh air you guys if this
keyboard was a tightly integrated modern
device we'd pretty much be throwing it
in the garbage but thanks to our
comrades at Zaba Bruno we've got this a
complete guide to the inner workings of
our keyboard so all we need to do is
work our way back from the connector to
see what's going wrong this right here
is our data output line and it comes
from this green thing right here that is
a uart chip which is short for universal
asynchronous receiver transmitter in a
nutshell it serializes incoming parallel
data and then outputs it at a given
frequency fun fact by the way there was
a parallel version of this keyboard the
2423 that didn't have the uart at all
and um would have saved us a lot of
investigative work because we would have
immediately noticed the problem when we
read the raw data that half of every
bite was locked to one but why well the
input to the uart comes from these two
Orange ic's right here these are rom
chips that hold lookup tables if we
Trace back one more step we get to the
keyboard controller which takes its
input from a pretty typical keyboard
Matrix now we're all the way back let's
go forward that Matrix gets translated
by the keyboard controller into a 9bit
parallel signal and a strobe signal that
indicates a key has been pressed the
nine bits go to our ROMs here and get
translated into two halves of a single
bite which the uart receives and
then converts to serial once it sees the
strobe signal it then sends that to the
output or at least that's how it's
supposed to happen as it turns out one
of our ROM chips is just broken also
wait a second nine bits ah I'm glad you
asked see seven bits would give us 128
values which is enough for a basic
asking table or or whatever kind of asy
table we're dealing with here then
there's two bits for the modifiers which
means four values and that turns out to
be no modifier control shift and repeat
wait repeat repeat repeat repeat repeat
yes repeat okay guys that's enough sorry
sorry see on most modern keyboards
repeating is builtin so when you hold
down a key it registers multiple key
presses but on this one it's press once
fire once no matter how long you hold it
unless you also hold the repeat key the
repeat key the repeat key we can
actually see this in action if I just
hold down the key takes a second to
spool up but kind of has some
interesting implications for gaming
doesn't it if only we could get it
working we can we just need to ignore
the parts that don't work we just need
to intercept these signals by wiring in
our microcontroller before these broken
ROM chips so they can't mess anything up
we programmed the microcontroller with
our own lookup tables based on the
documentation we found and then the
microcontroller just acts like a usb hid
device are we ready now of course we
just need the uh magnetic Cable
Management Arch from LTT store.com heck
yeah it helps if you actually put it on
the cable I
did the one that we need this one's
useless fair
enough oh why do I have to use the
Soviet Mouse
too no I want a real Mouse maybe later
but right now we need to try it with
this oh it's so bad though
the arrow keys are your movement not
WD well where's anything got to look
around there's the arrow keys up there
they're line they work
slowly what it works ever so slightly no
that's not Zed or X that's Q well where
are Zed and X you got to look around Zed
God X
nice oh oh no oh no come on a little bit
too much so um because the keyboard only
detects uh the pressing down the amount
of time that the computer reads that you
press the key uh is set by us so
currently it's not really reading it
very well okay well why did you do that
I thought it' be funny
come
on okay can we change it higher yes we
can change it thank you
okay new attempt here we go this going
to be way better right yep I changed the
delay to 50 seconds instead of
one 50 Mills okay shoot that was just
user okay this is really unergonomic
still but um this is this is totally
usable so this is just essentially the
the the polling rate that it's set to uh
it's like how long uh the computer
thinks the key is like held down and
then let go so the signals are only sent
when you like press a key not when you
let go like a modern keyboard right so
it's how long I tell the computer I'm
pressing it you're pressing a key I am I
don't think this is professional Tetris
not very good at Tetris so that's good I
thought I was doing bad okay look I am
old oh you can't like press multiple
things at once though it's very
aren't you excited to play an FPS God
no it changing the thing every time I
rotate is driving me absolutely crazy
okay what what is oh God this
mouse I was like well I'm done with this
game alt F there is no alt well there's
no F keys there
few how does this keyboard
work f space is f pay respect to this
keyboard why is it not going up you
could just use the like arrow keys I'm
going to have to play an FPS game Ariel
going to
try totally playable
see you just got to press it a lot
like oh and then it holds it down um
wasn't doing this
before uh uh uh C where's c c out of
fuel um double
okay can I have a real Mouse yeah this
one right
here all Oh Glory kill e yes yes yes yes
yes okay still alive I'm not close
enough come on E yes yes yes still alive
oh no wait what can we do with
teamwork okay so I'm going to hold the
repeat key
oh what is going oh right okay so I
can't hold the repeat key when you space
otherwise you're going to continuously
jump oh we got to like let go at the
right time yeah okay okay
okay there we go get get over there get
over come on come on go brother
go now you have got to be asking
yourself how could we say at the
beginning of this video that this is the
best of anything as it turns out it is
one of the most consistent keyboards
that we have ever tested on our robot
that is to say that the actuation force
and the travel distance is nearly
identical from Key Tokey thanks in no
small part to its 80 style solid steel
back plane you got to love it of course
if you're not pushing the key straight
down right in the center you're going to
have a pretty bad time uh let's just put
it this
way key stabilization has come a long
way in the last uh 35 years years you
know what else has come a long way my
Segways to our sponsor manscaped Step
Into Summer with confidence thanks to
manscaped and their performance package
5.0 Ultra it includes the lawn mower 5.0
Ultra groin and body hair trimmer turn
that overgrown Forest into a Serene
Garden just don't expect any flowers to
start growing there if they do please
seek help also included is the weed
whacker 2.0 electric nose hair trimmer
so people will actually look you in the
eyes when talking to you rather than
into the dark abyss faintly outlined
with the tentacles of some long
forgotten eldrich horror anyways you'll
also get their crop Soother aftershave
lotion and crop preserver anti-chafing
deodorant to keep you smelling fresh
down in your nether regions it even
comes with two free gifts a toiletry bag
for your grooming Essentials and a pair
of their boxers 2.0 to keep your family
jewels all tucked in and cozy check out
the performance package 5.0 Ultra at
manscape.com
Tech and use code lusch for 20% off and
free shipping if you guys liked this
video check out the time we got an old
Soviet era Mouse working with a modern
PC Ariel was so much younger back then